= Timetable =

Details of plenaries are not included here (see BernePlenieres); they take place each morning between 09 and 10 and each afternoon between 14 and 15h. I'm assuming that (if there is one) there is a coffee break between the end of the plenary and the start of the atelier both in the morning and the afternoon.

Numbered links below each title are to possible sources for the relevant talk/tutorial mostly on the svn repository on this site. Final versions will be stored in the repository at https://code.google.com/p/tei-fr/source/browse/#svn%2Ftrunk%2FTalks%2F2012-09-berne

== Tuesday / mardi ==

=== 1030 - 1130 ===

  * Talk 1 : Introduction to mark up concepts
    # http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Oxford/2011-02-aix/talk-intro-xml.xml

=== 1130 - 1230 ===

  * TP 1 : creating an XML document with Oxygen; visualising it
    #  http://tei-fr.googlecode.com/files/practicalsession.pdf 
    #  http://tei-fr.googlecode.com/files/uebungen.zip (from Christof) 

=== 1530 - 1630 ===

  * Talk 2 : Introduction to TEI and core elements
    # https://code.google.com/p/tei-fr/source/browse/trunk/Talks/2012-06-reggio/talk-tei.xml

=== 1630 - 1730 ===

  * TP 2 : marking up a document with TEI Lite or less

== Wednesday / mercredi ==

=== 1030 - 1130 ===

  * Talk 3 : Recap. Overview of TEI. Selection of TEI elements.
    #  http://tei.oucs.ox.ac.uk/Oxford/2011-02-aix/talk-guidelines.xml 

=== 1130 - 1230 ===

  * TP 3 : Defining a schema with Roma

=== 1530 - 1630 ===

  * Talk 4 : TEI elements for documentary transcriptions 
    # https://code.google.com/p/tei-fr/source/browse/trunk/Talks/2012-01-tours/tei-editing.xml
    # https://code.google.com/p/tei-fr/source/browse/trunk/Talks/2012-07-dhox/talk06.xml

=== 1630 - 1730 ===

  * TP 4 : marking up a simple manuscript transcription

== Thursday / jeudi ==

=== 1030 - 1130 ===

  * Talk 5 : Metadata. TEI elements for manuscript description.
    # https://code.google.com/p/tei-fr/source/browse/trunk/Talks/2012-07-dhox/talk05.xml
    # https://code.google.com/p/tei-fr/source/browse/trunk/Talks/2012-03-clermont/talk-hdr.xml



=== 1130 - 1230 ===

  * TP 5 : adding a header, and marking up a manuscript description

=== 1530 - 1630 ===

  * Talk 6 : TEI elements for documentary transcription : closer look

=== 1630 - 1730 ===

  * TP 6 : adding zones and images to a manuscript transcription


== Friday / vendredi ==

=== 0900 - 0945 ===

  * Talk 7 : Named entities. Indexing. Other topics?

=== 0945 - 1030 ===

  * TP 7 : ?

=== 1100 - 1230 ===

Closing plenary discussion