#summary BVH validation

= Notes on current BVH encoding praxis =

*TEI* 

  * @version ("5.0") : no longer valid : two occurrences to remove
  * @xml:base : ?valid "The attribute xml:base may be inserted in XML documents to specify a base URI *other than* the base URI of the  document or external entity." according to the spec. However, what we see here is the root filename. Strictly speaking all #xxx type links will be interpreted relative to this, which is probably not what was intended.
  * @xml:id : these are valid though verbose : introduce a shorter version ?
  * @xml:lang : missing on one doc; fra(48) shd really be fr(1)

*ab* (1012)
  All but 8 specify a @rend, which in all but 11  ="runon" ; also specified on parent &lt;sp>. 
  1 only supplies @type="note" : this seems redundant 

*abbr* (1610)
  One and one only has a value (IDBA) for its xml:id. Why?

*add*
  * @hand some values are unresolvable pointers; 5 (of 36) are just words
  * @type="provenance" occurs twice. Why?
  * @xml:id used twice only

*author*
  * @role=auteur (46) seems a bit redundant
  * @xml:id (15 cases) maybe better as @key ?
  * @corresp (1) why?

*authority* (150)
  * @xml:base (49/50) why? and why is 1 @corresp

*bibl* (393)
  * @xml:base misused : where it provides a reference, probably should be @ref
  * xml:id vals need to be checked, but look ok
  * @xml:lang =lat (18) shd be la

*biblScope* (155) 85 have no @unit
  * @type (4)  : shd be @unit
  
*castItem* (63)
  * @xml:id only 8 -- so where else do @who point to?

*catRef* (162)
  * @scheme values need to be better defined (corpus-BVH/tei/version)?
  * @target : where are values defined? no taxonomy found

*change* 
  * @who values shd be links

*choice*
  * @xml:lang=eus (1) ??

*cit* (99)
  * @xml:lang 3 letter vals used

*classDecl*
  * @xml:base points to "#BVH_classDecl.xml" (4 occs of @corresp likewise) :
probably these should both just be xIncludes but I need to see the file to see what it is

*corr*
  * @resp : values a mix of refs and codes: shd be consistent
  * @source : apparently used in the same way 

*date*
  * @n nearly always =1 : is this useful?
  * @type : inconsistent codes

*del*
  * @hand : unresolved pointers; inconsistent
  * @type : =censure (only value; 9 occs) 

*dim*
  * @rend : misused here
  * @unit : ligne/lignes?

*div* 
  * @corresp : 1 occ =#peletier ??
  * @type/@subtype : values need to be reviewed
  * xml:id : needs to be uniquified : just add a 2 digit prefix for doc and we're done
  * @xml:lang : 3 char codes (ell/ita/lat) instead of (el/it/la)

*edition*
  * @corresp (2) : meaning?
  * @xml:base (50) : supplying an xtf query of some sort, but why?

*editionStmt*
  * @xml:base and xml:id misused, I think, but only once

*epigraph* (2)
  * @xml:lang : la not lat plz

*expan* 
  * @source (3) : vals inconsistent
  * @xml:lang : la not lat plz

*figure* (480)
  some of these are not figures

*foreign*
  * @xml:lang : vals inconsistent shd all be 2 chars

*fw* (20554)
 Should not be used for editiorial foliation if it's not visible.
  * @rend : italic/it 
  * @type : pagenum (1)/pageNum (9260)
  * @xml:id (1) ?

*g* (1012)
  * @ref (787) null : error?; links to a specific lettrine image should be done with @facs I think
  * @type (103) : is @type="pied_de_mouche" same as @ref="#mouche" ?

*graphic*
  * @xml:base and @xml:id used strangely
  * @xml:lang(2)  values "art" and "oar" mean what?

*head*
  * @rend has " center" and "center"

*hi*
  * @rend has "hi" "it" "italic" and some other variants

*institution* 
  * @key (7) what do these values mean?

*item*
  * @corresp shd be a pointer, but only 1 of the 44 is

*keywords*
  * @scheme 45 point to "#Index_matuere.xml"; 5 to "BVH-matiere"

*l*
  * @rend what do values "negatif" and "positif" (or "positirf") mean?


*lg*
  * @xml:lang =la (1) =lat(3)
  * @xml:id =la (1)

*list*
  * @type(44) : check values

*listBibl*
  * @type =refbiblio (34) -- how different from the other 14
  * @xml:base : usage?   

*name*
  * @corresp : a few non pointers. what is it pointing at?
  * @key : usage?
  * @xml:id : usage ?




 


  
  
 












*sp*

In 1010 cases, the speech is encoded within an ab; in 724 within a p : should be consistent




  

 